# Mitonuclear Analysis Project
This repository contains data files and scripts to reproduce the analysis for the manuscript currently titled: **"Mitonuclear Conflict in a Macaque Species Exhibiting Phylogenetic Discordance"**

# Abstract 

Speciation and hybridization are fundamental and intertwined processes in the study of evolution. Hybridization between sufficiently diverged populations can result in genomic conflict within offspring, causing reduced viability and fertility, thus increasing divergence between populations. Conflicts between mitochondrial and nuclear genes are increasingly found to play a role in this process in a variety of systems. We examine the possibility of this conflict in the bear macaque, *Macaca arctoides*, a primate species exhibiting mitonuclear discordance due to hybridization with two other species groups in its history. Divergence, introgression, and natural selection of mitonuclear genes (N = 143) relative to nuclear control genes (N = 127) were analyzed to determine if there are evolutionary processes involved in resolving the potential conflict caused by mitonuclear discordance. Divergence of mitonuclear genes is increased relative to nuclear genes between *M. arctoides* and the species of its nuclear ancestry (P = 0.023). Mitochondrial tRNA-synthetases show disproportionate signatures of selection compared to other mitonuclear genes (P = 0.042). However, measures of introgression and selection do not identify large-scale co-introgression or co-evolution as means to resolve mitonuclear conflict. The methodology implemented provides a framework that can be used to examine effects of mitonuclear co-introgression and co-evolution in a variety of systems.

# Data Analysis

The directory ["Gene-Processing-Scripts"](https://github.com/StevisonLab/Mitonuclear-Analysis-Project/tree/master/Gene-Processing-Scripts)
contains scripts used to convert gene data between different formats and to obtain "matching" data for N-mt and nuclear genes. Dependendencies and authorship of source scripts are stated within scripts.

The directory ["Pop-Gen-Scripts"](https://github.com/StevisonLab/Mitonuclear-Analysis-Project/tree/master/Pop-Gen-Scripts) contains scripts used to run divergence, introgression, and selection analyses on N-mt and nuclear genes. These are all bash scripts designed to loop through programs computing these statistics.

A single data file ["Gene_Data.csv"](https://github.com/StevisonLab/Mitonuclear-Analysis-Project/blob/master/Gene_Data.csv) is provided that contains all information gathered from scripts in the above directories. A single R script ["Mitonuclear_Stats_Plots.R"](https://github.com/StevisonLab/Mitonuclear-Analysis-Project/blob/master/Mitonuclear_Stats_Plots.R) is provided that will analyze this data file and produce Figures and text files with statistical analyses and output these respectively to ["Figures"](https://github.com/StevisonLab/Mitonuclear-Analysis-Project/tree/master/Figures) and ["Stats"](https://github.com/StevisonLab/Mitonuclear-Analysis-Project/tree/master/Stats).
